# sphinx-basic-ng-template

This is a simple template repository to prototype what it looks like to sub-theme the [sphinx-basic-ng theme](https://sphinx-basic-ng.readthedocs.io/en/latest/).

## Goals of this template

- Utilize a python-only stack
- Show off some nice workflows for SCSS and JS compilation
- Only utilize the workflows that 80% of themes might be interested in
- Be copyable for other theme authors that want to use this as a starting point

## Notable aspects of this template

### SCSS and JS source files

Stored in `src/scss` and `src/js`, respectively.

These are compiled at build time with the [web-compile package](https://github.com/executablebooks/web-compile) to generate CSS and JS assets for our theme. They are then placed in `basic_ng_template/theme/basic_ng_template/static`.

In additin, we use `web-compile` to generate a unique **hash** for each asset.
This is placed in a small CSV at compilation time, which is then used by `__init__.py` to add the appropriate asset link to Sphinx documentation (see below).

**Note**: The theme also includes a pre-commit configuration that automates the web compilation step each time you make a commit with this repository.

### Theme asset linking

Is handled by the Python script at `basic_ng_template/__init__.py`.
This uses the `app.add_css_file` and `app.add_js_file` method to link the assets used by this theme, along with the **hash** for each asset that was generated by `web-compile`.

The hash is used along with a `digest=` parameter, which will cause browsers to update to the latest versions of these assets when they are re-built.

### Theme configuration

Is located in `basic_ng_template/theme/basic_ng_template/theme.conf`.
This is left intentionally minimal - it simply declares the `basic-ng` theme as its parent.

### Theme HTML sections

This theme over-rides all of the sections defined by the `basic-ng` theme.
These are all located in `basic_ng_template/theme/basic_ng_template/sections/<section-name>.html`.
See the [sphinx-basic-ng documentation](https://sphinx-basic-ng.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) for more information about how these sections can be over-ridden.

### Theme HTML components

This theme also defines a custom component that is embedded in a section.
This component is located in `basic_ng_template/theme/basic_ng_template/components/mycustomcomponent.html`.

## Demo this theme

To demonstrate how this theme looks, first clone this repository:

```console
$ git clone https://github.com/choldgraf/sphinx-basic-ng-template
```

install `nox`:

```console
$ pip install nox
```

build the theme with `nox`:

```console
$ nox -s docs-live
```

This will install the necessary dependencies, build the sample documentation for this theme, and open a live server in your browser to preview the theme's built HTML.
